## Please [accept marketing-cookies](javascript:Cookiebot.renew())to watch this video.

<iframe src="" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Welcome back to episode 3 of J&J Talk AI.

This time we talk about deep learning, convolutional neural network or CNNs and how they could solve the problem.

******And that's where a machine learning system comes in really handy because I can then ask the question: System, what filters do you need to answer the following question?

****So how can we automate this process using images, photographs of those paper checks? And he solved this problem using confnets, really simple ones, only a few layers where then the features are generated by learned filters or by learned weights. You could also call them.

And then we quickly saw ever larger models that were able to not only do classification tasks at some point, but also more complex tasks like visual question answering. And some point then also generative tasks where I take an image and change the style of the image so that it looks like an artwork, etc, etc. So that's what you can do with convolutional neural networks and learned filters.

**And is this some kind of layer? So you'd have a filter and then you get a feature map and the feature map is an input to another map. I remember deep learning from Google. They did it like this.

JH:**Yeah, that's where the term deep comes from in this scenario. So what you want to do is you want to aggregate information. So I have now an image or an array of pixels. I turn those into a number of feature maps using my learned filters. But that information itself is not really helpful. It's just a bunch of features.

And then finally, I take those features and put it into a prediction layer, a classification layer and say, now I want 10 values for digit classification. I want 10 values, value one. If that's high, then I know it's a zero. And if value 10 is high and all the other values are compared to that very low, then I know it's a nine, right? This way I turn feature layer after feature layer after feature layer into really condensed information that I can then use to do, for example, classification.

********And the combination of those two can then probably tell me any number of edges. So that's really interesting to see what the network comes up with. So you mentioned in your explanation before that you can also use the neural network not to just say, okay, this is a number or this is the number on the paper check, but you can also use this to generate things.

JD:**Why would I want to generate things in the first place?

But if you just enable a person to generate a set of pixels that look funny, just given a prompt, that I think in itself is a really cool thing to do. So that's why you would, for example, want to generate things. But there are more reasons to do that. So for example, you would like to generate images when you don't have labeled data. Sounds probably a little bit strange.

JD:**Maybe you have to explain what a label is first.

JH:**Okay, yeah, sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. So a label would be, for example, in the scenario where I want to detect digits or classify digits would be that given this image, the label for it is the digit that's contained in it.

****And one way to do this is to say, to build a network that needs to condense the information that's in the image into, for example, a low-dimensional vector. So in a dimensionality that's way lower than the inherent dimensionality of the space we're coming from. So image space and all the possible combinations of pixels that I could come up with, condense this information into something low dimensional and then take this information again to produce an image that must look exactly the same as the image I put in. And then I can compare the generated image with the given image and calculate a loss, which I can then use to train this system to come up with low-dimensional representations of the images I feed it.

******So that's already it for the convolutional neural networks. Thanks, Johannes.

Podcast Homepage

<div data-rt-embed-type="true"> Please [accept marketing-cookies](javascript:Cookiebot.renew())to watch this video.

<iframe src="" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>